---
layout: blog
title: "How big is the Universe?"
category: blog
tags: [javascript]
summary: mvemjsunp
image: /images/blog/solar-system.png
---

tldr, too big. Here is the comparison of solar system planets.

Some of the adjectives are too confusing, for instance **expensive**. How much a thing will cost makes it an expensive item? Well, of course depends on which item it is but your *pay cheque* also effects the answer. But some of the values are almost never use in real life. If you live in US, you can spend $10 in a market for food or $100 if you buy a lot of stuff but never spend $1M for food in the market at least. Let say the range would be 0 to 300 or even more 1000. If one of your friend tells that s/he spent $10K on the market, you do not beleive or that does not makes sense for you. What if your friend says, s/he spent $6000000000? 

I always wonder how the plants are apart from each other and how big they are. Of course, there are lots of data about it but I would like to see comparison of the distance to sun and their diameters in one picture. Better to look at full screen. So here it is:

<svg width="780" height="180"></svg>

These planets placed in scable distance to sun and drew in scalable diameter to each other but the distances (million km) and the diameter measurement (km) are in different scale.

<script type="text/javascript" src="http://d3js.org/d3.v4.min.js"></script>
<script type="text/javascript">

    d3.csv("https://raw.githubusercontent.com/ckilimci/d3-examples/master/solar-system.csv", function (data) {
        var width = 780;
        var height = 180;

        var distanceScale = d3.scaleLinear()
            .domain([0, 6000])
            .range([0, width-50]);

        var diameterScale = d3.scaleLinear()
            .domain([0, 140000])
            .range([0, 50]);

        var canvas = d3.select("svg")
            .append("g");

        canvas.append("rect")
            .attr("width", "100%")
            .attr("height", "100%")
            .attr("fill", "#ddd");

        canvas.selectAll("circle")
            .data(data)
            .enter()
                .append("circle")
                .attr("cx", function(d) { return distanceScale(d.distance); } )
                .attr("cy", 100)
                .attr("r", function(d) { return diameterScale(d.diameter); })
                .attr("fill", "black");

        canvas.selectAll("text")
            .data(data)
            .enter()
                .append("text")
                .attr("fill", "red")
                .attr("x", function(d) { return distanceScale(d.distance) - 4; })
                .attr("y", 93)
                .text(function(d) { return d.label; });

        var axis = d3.axisBottom(distanceScale);

        canvas.append("g")
            .call(axis);
    });

</script>

